Where am I at right now with my ASA Parser tool?

2017 may 15th 1900 to 2030
  A tiny typo can make a big difference in a compare/sort routine.
  I fixed the sort routine. a simple addition will be to iterate through the network object/service object/acl lists in order and flag the differences.
  This is satisfying the necessary function i had of parsing through an ASA config and helping me find the differences. I'll have to mostly put this down for a while and focus on the CCNA-Security.
  
2017 may 07th 2045 to 2150
  I am not the most gifted programmer. However, I'm not going to let that discourage me. I am happy to take a lot longer than I think it ought to take me to make a correction. I find problems. Maybe I should not have coded the problems to begin with, but I have examined my code and output and discovered problems to fix. I have the disadvantage of working alone on this, so when there is something I want to fix, I have to think about it and work through it. I think it would be easier to ask someone for a hint with how they document code, and decide when to make something a separate function vs a large function.
  
  My compare methods are identifying when an object is different. I just need to fix the methods that format the strings for output or saving to a file.
  
  I did get a "one button gui" working as well. once the string formatting methods are working the way I want, I'll try to change from a menu to a gui with a few buttons. 
  
  This is frustrating and difficult, but it is also exactly what I would like to be doing right now. 
  
  I have to laugh too. I have enough of the program working to be useful. It puts out to a file the ordered list of ASA Network and Service objects, as well as ACL's. When I told some friends and coworkers about the program I was writing, they were helpful in telling me how a person could copy and paste into notepad, then excel, then back to notepad, do a diff, do this and that, complete complex manual processes, to copy/paste etc. I know it is possible to do all of that. That *is* the reason to write a script to do it for me. I have a need to do a thorough job comparing these lists. I know I will make mistakes doing it manually. Where my program is now, you *could* take the output from two ASA's and put them into Notepad++ (which is an awesome program that I am using to write this). From Notepad++, I *could* do a diff and scroll through and manually mark changes. Why would I want to? Wouldn't it be easier to just finish and fix the code so it works right, and then I just press a button to get reliable repeatable results. It makes more sense to me. Maybe I'm just weird that way.

2017 may 06th 1430 to 1600 
  I spent more time thinking about the compare objects than I actually spent at the keyboard. I have an index out of bounds error, which I was looking for. Usually, for me, it is checking for a condition at the wrong spot, incrementing something in the wrong spot or multiple times, or checking less than, instead of less than or equal.
  
  I fixed it by adding a check/apply for the sentinal condition "end compare = true" when I incremented a counter.
  If I am checking two objects that are the same, it works the way I want.
    [obj1] + [obj2] on one line
  if they are not the same, it is putting the object in the left column only.  

2107 apr 25th 0825
  Working on compare objects. if name1==name2, objects may be the same. if name1 != name2, objects are not the same, stop checking. do the not equal first. even though most objects will probably match up, i think checking the not equal will drop through faster. what do i pass back to the calling function? if the objects are the same, i know that what i passed in is the same. if the objects are not the same, but their names are the same, that prevents me from just returning name1. i think i need to just return text "object1", if object 1 comes first alphabetically, and "object2", if object2 comes first.
  
  I would like my editor/ide to tell me everywhere my method is called from. At the moment, I am using notepad++, so it may be in my best interest to move to a better ide. 

2017 apr 22nd
  I have arrived at the realization that it takes me 45 mins to figure out where i was when i stopped working on my project last time, and then i code for 15 mins, and then have to stop for one reason or another. I am going to try to start setting some shorter goals. something like "redo the compare functions" is a lot more challenging than split the compareASA function into two sections. Likewise, building a GUI is a lot of work when i have never done it before. 
  
  I also need to have some non-project focused tasks, like adding comments. I also need to have time to review other code, away from my ASA stuff.

2017 apr 18th
  redoing some stuff.
  compareASAs should call CompareObjList. passing in two network/service object lists.
  
  compareObjList should recieve in two lists of network/service objects
  compareObjList should call compareObjElements, passing in two network/service objects
    compareObjList should have two boolean variables, endlist1 and endlist2. if,after increment, len(list1)=count1, endlist1 is true.
    condition for entering loop is "while (not endlist1) or (not endlist2)"
      while endlist1<<list1 is exhausted, but list2 is active
      while endlist2<<list 2 is exhausted, list1 may or may not be exhausted
      
  
  compareObjElements should receive two objects. 
  
  
2017 apr 16th 1100 to 1130
  In thinking about the compare functions, it occurs to me that there are two different kinds of important compares. My original compare function lists the complete list of objects next to the corresponding list of objects, flagging differences. it only compares the names. if a change is made to the IP Address or Description, it will not be flagged. It would also be helpful to have a "diffobj" function, which only puts out the differences and does not output the things that are the same.

2017 apr 14th 
  working on redoing compare methods. i am not going to iterate through for loops. after some "deep thought" i realized it would be better for me to use a sentinal (endcompare), set it false, and make it true when i am done. the problem with iterating through the for/each on one or the other list, is the iteration stops until the other side is complete. I could have a blank, or multiple blanks, on either side.
  
  also changing test script to make testing more automated. select '#1' will call "testthis" method.
  
  I am torn between making methods/functions too long and complicated, and making them too short having too complex a cascade of this function calls that function.


2017 apr 09th 0720 to 
  on thursday last week, i have the ASAclasses working well enough that i can put in a single asa file and have it output to a file, the sorted list of network and service objects, as well as the acl's. next step is bringing it back to the main program, and doing a simple gui. 
  
  For my compare functions, if both names are the same, i want to print both objects next to each other. if the left name comes first alphabetically, I want it to print the left object and have a blank on the right. if the right object comes first alphabetically, i want to print a blank left object next to the right object. I would also like to avoid having the list run away, where i print all of the left objects at once with blanks, then all of the right objects at once with blanks. i'm just working on the network objects now. once that is working right, doing it for groups and service objects should be easier.

2017 apr 05th 1830 to 1930 and 2000 to 2100
  worked on ASA Classes. ACLs are added to the mix. not sorted, but then again you don't want them sorted. they are evaluated in order. I would like to add a sequence number



2017 apr 03rd 2000hrs to 2115
  nuts. i was going to rewrite my sort routines, then i saw the routine i have originally was exactly the way i was going to rewrite it. 
  Further testing reveal my sort routine is working. so the problem i am seeing with out-of-order elements must be coming from someplace else. i have an intuition that somewhere i am re-sorting using memory address instead of text value.
  
2017 apr 02nd 0630 to 0830
  i am putting all of my concatenated strings into a single list for writing, to avoid opening/closing a file for each line, or each object. I would prefer to do a single open/write/close. in the future, i'll check to see if i can open a file using an object method, and leave it open when i exit the method, and close it later.  
  
  my compareASA method is appending a list to a list. so i have a list of a list of strings. i have the compare function pushing each text element into a list for writing. that is working. however, my sort method is not working. have to have a look at that later.
    
  i did find in my reading three good resources about implementing a gui as class objects. They all walked through how to make a gui without class OOP, and then demonstrate the limitations, and demonstrate how much easier it is to implement when you use OOP to begin with.  
    
2017 mar 31st 0745 to 0845, 0945 to 1015

  found a case where if object network starts with a space, the name of network object isn't handled correctly
  maybe I am parsing my strings in a way that could lead to errors. I want to parse on the first space after the keyword. so if an ACL starts with "access-list" and has a space after it, i want to know the index of that space.
  for the moment, I know all of the network objects will not start with a space in the ASA config. and all ACL objects will start with "access-list ". i would like to use a more robust method. 
  
  str.find(substring,startindex,endindex) will return the lowest index of substring, or -1 if not found
  teststring.find(" ",5,15) should return 15 for a network object
  teststring.find("object network ") should return 0 for a network object
  teststring.find ("access-list ")should return 0 for a acl object
  str.count((substring,startindex,endindex))
  working on breaking down the access list statements now.

2017 mar 30th 0410 to 0540, 2100 to 2200
  string formatter. passing values by name verified.
2017 mar 29th 1845 to 2045
  separated out print to screen and save file.
  working on compare function. need another file to use for comparing
  
2017 mar 27th
  things always take longer than i expect. I spent an hour tonight, and four hours on sunday, finding and fixing some problems. (lists not being cleared as expected). I thought i was going to have to do more work on finding the last space in a substring of a string, but it was built in. Thanks python. rfind.

2017 mar 23rd
  loading, sorting, screen and file out are working.
  three next things are adding Network Object Groups, Service Objects, and GUI
  I wish I had the first three working two weeks ago.
  added another field to the Network Object (objtype) which will allow me to use service objects, as well as object groups. 
2017 mar 07th
  I can in myself a reluctance to put a lot of code inside a if branch. my code habits are to make a function/method and call that from inside the block. there may be a performance trade-off with readability.
  
2017 mar 04th
writing to a file was the most important function for me to get working. I still want to bring in ACL's, Service Objects, etc. I still want to have a working compare function. I still want to have a working search function. I still want to make a working GUI. I want to complete some certifications more than all of this other stuff, so shifting back to the back burner for the moment, until I need a distraction.

file write
  writelines is working. I can bring in a file, and it will write to my specified file all of the network objects. I need to verify this will all work going through the menu.
GUI
  TKinter is based on TCL, which means not the same as Python. I see that getters and setters are used in tcl, but discouraged in python. just means i will have to pay attention.  
  
  
2017 feb 27th
file write (writelines method)
  had a change of heart on writing to the file.
  instead of having a class method as well as function in the main module, both operations will happen in the main module
  writelines will take in a list, and write the list to the file.
  each network object, service object, acl object, etc. will have a method to put each line into a list to prep for writing to the file
  
GUI
  had a talk with Shayne. the best learning experience will be to deploy a gui using both a class and as a library of functions. on reflection, the gui will be a group of tasks. a class is data and functions. 

Time
  i wish i had been taking more time to document how much time i am spending on this python program, the challenges, and how I am overcoming the challenges.
  
Vars  
  I need also to go through and look for variables that can be removed or brought down to more local namespaces. and make them more consistent. 
  
